dear nia you died
seven months ago in the blaze of a drone
bomb when it fell
unceremoniously into our living room
where you sat working
there was a funeral it was fancy the
great death of a great scientist
and then they gave me the urn and i
didn't know what to do
just left it on top of the bookshelf and
whisked your ashes good morning and
wished your ashes goodnight
kidding myself that if i didn't scatter
them then none of this
would have happened i threw out some of
your clothes and
slept next to the rest your smell is
fading from them already
and i think soon enough i won't remember
what you smelled like at all
i perform the standard rituals i feed
the cats i drink
liberally i watch the higgs fall out on
the horizon at night
the war goes on i've surrendered already
sauron dear sauron
it was strange and good and strange
to get your message though on this side
it was you
who died seven months ago in the fire of
that drone bomb
as it came streaking into not the living
room but the kitchen
at my request you weren't cremated but
buried
you can imagine what a thing it was
today to visit your grave
then come home to find your message
waiting for me but i'm glad you wrote
we are living in those strange first
years of a new technology
when language can't capture what it is
yet i told a friend
about your message she called it a
seance but
a seance is for the dead and you're not
dead
and you are dead and you're not dead
it's
horrible to think all it took that bomb
to wander into the kitchen rather than
the living room
with some tiny perturbation in the air
above our house
the war is distant on this side i
haven't seen the higgs clouds in weeks
and i am not in an urn thank you for
your message
dear nia i am trying not to cry at my
keyboard
i wasn't even sure you'd reply your lab
friends have told me that the bridge
between us should stay open for a few
weeks
but they can't guarantee anything when i
got permission to use the equipment they
warned me not to get my hopes up
that even if i found you you probably
wouldn't be from a world line
i recognized you wouldn't be ania i
recognized
but i do recognize you your words sound
like mineir
i hope that's who you are whatever this
strange magic you've invented is it's
your legacy now
on this side they talk about you like
you're some great martyr of science
but now i know you're the best kind of
martyr a living one
you are missed the dog doesn't sleep on
our bed anymore but waits for you
at the door you still get posts
sometimes too i'll
scan and attach it with this message
it's just very
very good to hear from you soren dear
soren
i think maybe you're not clear how this
works you told me the war is still going
strong
on your side it's almost over for us i
don't want to make you sad but that
means
our world lines are getting distant
already i know you could never stand
jargon but
look the equipment uses a single
particle suspended
in superposition just at the moment of
wave function collapse
it lives half in your world line half in
mind it is
a fragile bridge between two splitting
universes
that's how we're talking every time a
particle's wave function collapses
it births new world lines new universes
splitting off like coral and then more
particles deviate inside those world
lines
more coral branching out every
measurement of the world fracturing the
world again
and again new universes born over and
over side by side
this isn't just about your world line
and mine there are
quadrillions of them next door there is
a world line where
yes i stayed for a few more hours at
work that night and the bomb never fell
on me and we're both still alive
there's a world line where the bomb got
both of us there's a world line where we
never met
but how much does your wildline and mind
differ
maybe you're near like scrambled eggs or
tolerate jazz or hated autumn or
whatever
we'll never know but we are not from the
same world
i don't mean to be cold but please
understand this gift
for what it is it's not the beginning of
a correspondence
it's a chance to say goodbye my husband
is in that graveyard
your wife is in that urn please don't
send me her post again
i am not your nier the army retook
hypatia today
the war's almost over for us thank you
for your message
nia dear nia well
in this world line you didn't like
scrambled eggs or jazz so how's that for
more evidence you are who i think you
are
yes things are a little different on
this side yes hypatia is gone for me
already it got higgs to dust a few weeks
ago but that's world history not
us i'm sitting in our garden writing
this our garden staring at
our roses and a world line away maybe
you're sitting here too
at this very moment right next to me
when you built this thing
this technique whatever the hell it is
what did you want to use it for
what could be a better application than
this a second chance
we're just a universe distant don't
throw this away
please it was until death do us part and
you are alive and i am alive and don't
throw this away
yours devotedly soarin
dear soren there aren't any roses in our
garden
not here you're still not getting it are
you even if the only difference between
your wildline and mine was a gust of
wind above our house seven months ago
that difference has changed everything
we have
many bridges to many other world lines
on this side
we've heard from some that never had the
war and many more that have been hixed
to oblivion with our village gone
with the cities gone i've spoken with
them with some of the survivors
i've offered my condolences and then
i've turned off the magnetic field
and let the wave function collapse so i
can never talk to them
again because i have nothing to say that
would help them because they are not
us i am not from that world line where
the sky is burst open with the higgs
fallout
i am not from the world line where you
lost me you asked why i built the
equipment
officially as a screw you to the
copenhagen theorists
unofficially because i knew there must
be at least one world line
where a single cell hadn't begun the
process of dividing madly out of control
inside mara's body and we'd never lost
her
to cancer i found one of those world
lines eventually
she is 11 now she has your stupid
sentimental streak
she has my pragmatism i spoke to her for
an evening
just like you and i are doing now i told
her i missed her
and what did she say she said okay
because what can she say in her world
line she still has parents
still has her life she said okay because
i am not
her mother i am not her mother in the
same way as i am not
your wife i let her go and you need to
let me go now
i believe one day when this technology
reaches fruition
that humans will develop a new sense an
evolutionary adaptation
for seeing ourselves as one among
billions of branching versions of our
possible selves for intuiting that we're
not individuals
but simultaneous travelers across the
atlas of if
you and i don't have that adaptation and
so we're still seeing the world lines
as periscopes into parallel worlds but
they're not
their mirrors cracked distorted
fairground mirrors
you are the 586th soren to contact me
and you are the 586th soren who i will
inform
first that i miss him and second
that i am severing the bridge now
because i am severing the bridge now
i can't stop you contacting the other
widowed niers
maybe there's a softer kind of me out
there who will keep this game up with
you who will send letters
to a ghost i wish you luck finding her i
wish you luck with the war
i wish you luck moving on take comfort
in knowing that beside our grey
half-lives a world line away who knows
what became of a single subatomic
deviation
great palaces in the sky continents
without starvation
or deprivation and somewhere across the
coral
you and i are still swimming together
yours
probabilistically near
[Music]
dear near that's very poetic but i think
you're just hurting like i am
grieving is horrible i know it but
please don't do anything rash with the
connection
i'll be sitting by my inbox all day just
right back as soon as you dear nia
it's been a week of nothing from you now
i know you're upset i'm sure it must all
be strange but
things are getting horrible here and i
wish you'd write you were always
stubborn but i could always win you
around and i hope
it's one of those times dear near
they've started higgsing everything now
and i don't think it's long before the
radiation reaches us
please just tell me how you are please
tell me you're okay please tell me
something
for the sake of even an iota of decency
will you please just write back
hell you built all of this you can't
just take nia a month
a month of nothing you're right maybe
there are differences in the world lines
my nia was never this stubborn or myopic
would never have trodden heartlessly on
the hearts of those around her
are you going to leave me trapped here
trapped with this urn and the blue hell
dust on the horizon
and the bodies in the streets and the
noise and the hangover mornings
and the stumbling nights my god it meant
nothing did it not a damn thing not you
and i no civility not peace agreements
not civilization
all of it just some stupid veneer to
cover up how dumb we still all are
fine leave me here
[Music]
dear madam it is with great pleasure
that we award you the title of
a doctor of philosophy specifically in
the field of the foundations
of quantum mechanics i would like to
personally apologize
for our delaying of awarding your
doctorate but as i'm sure you understand
your research was somewhat unorthodox
particularly the correspondences you
submitted
between your counterpart and the
counterpart of your husband
from the so-called parallel world lines
i have
since used your technique to speak to my
counterparts from several world lines
and can report the experience is a
strange one
though will no doubt become a common
practice for us all
soon enough i can also recommend several
therapists
i have subsequently required the
services of now that these
so-called world lines have been
confirmed i would also like to seek your
approval of my forwarding your thesis
to the ministry of defence in light of
the global conflict
our world line has apparently narrowly
avoided
in any case congratulations i look
forward to
receiving you and your fellow colleagues
at the doctoral awards ceremony at the
end
of this month i have taken the liberty
of reserving seats there
for your husband and daughter who given
their
in some sense featuring in your research
i confess an interest in meeting
in person your ceremonial gown and
bonnet can be rented
via companies i have provided the
details of below free parking for the
ceremony can be found in the designated
blue areas
if you have any special dietary
requirements regarding the celebratory
lunch
please
you